README.adoc, before:

:toc: macro
:toc-title: 
:toclevels: 3
:language: csharp

# Gradient
This repository serves as a public issue tracker and documentation for Gradient, full TensorFlow binding for .NET

Gradient is a fully-fledged, mostly typed binding to TensorFlow for .NET

You can find samples at https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples

[quote, Gradient-based Char-RNN trained on Shakespeare]
He shall speak not reverbering injurance.

# Contents
toc::[]

# Getting started
## Installation
Tech Preview is currently limited to Windows x64 machines, and full .NET Framework 4.7.1+ targets.

### Install Python + Tensorflow
Before installing Gradient, you should ensure, that you have TensorFlow installed and working:

. Install Python 3.6 64-bit. If you have Visual Studio 2017+, it is possible to install it as a component. Otherwise, get one from https://www.python.org/downloads/
. Install TensorFlow 1.10 using pip:
.. Find `python.exe` in the installation directory (VS installs to: C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\Shared\Python36_64\python.exe)
.. Open command line to the directory, containing `python.exe`
.. Execute `.\python.exe -m pip install "tensorflow==1.10.\*"` or `.\python.exe -m pip install "tensorflow-gpu==1.10.*"` if you want GPU acceleration via CUDA (NVidia only)
. Check the installation by launching `python.exe`, and running [source,python]`import tensorflow`. It should succeed.

### Add Nuget package to your project

Gradient packages are published on https://www.nuget.org/packages/Gradient/[Nuget], but will not be "listed" until about Tech Preview 5, which means you won't be able to find it in the Nuget Package Manager. Nuget page lists the commands, necessary to install the package into your project. As of preview1 and the new .csproj format, the command is

[source,powershell]
----
dotnet add package Gradient --version 0.1.10-tech-preview1 
----

If using the new package management features of `.csproj`, this could also be achieved by adding the following line to it:

[source,xml]
----
<PackageReference Include="Gradient" Version="0.1.10-tech-preview1"  />
----

See the example project file https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/blob/master/BasicMath/BasicMath.csproj[here].

## First steps

### Namespaces
In most cases, you will need to add `using tensorflow;` at the beginning of your file. In many cases you will also need `using Gradient;` and `using numpy;`.

[source,csharp]
----
using numpy;
using tensorflow;
using Gradient;
----

### Logging
https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/logging[TensorFlow logging] is separate from Gradient logging. This section discusses the later.

To enable Gradient logs, set appropriate properties of `GradientLog` static class, e.g.:
[source,csharp]
GradientLog.OutputWriter = Console.Out;

### Old style TF
Prior to the recent changes, the main way to use TensorFlow was to contstruct a computation graph, and then run it in a session. Most of the existing examples will use this mode.

#### Constructing compute graph
Graph creation methods are located in the `tf` class from `tensorflow` namespace. For example:

[source,csharp]
----
var a = new dynamic[] { tf.constant(5.0, name: "a") };
var b = new dynamic[] { tf.constant(10.0, name: "b") };

var sum = new dynamic[] { tf.add(a, b, name: "sum") };
var div = new dynamic[] { tf.div(a, b, name: "div") };
----

In this case we wrap the resulting `Tensor` objects into an array, as many construction functions in Gradient like `tf.add` expect arrays (or rather `IEnumerable`), not individual `Tensor` values. (that might change in the future)

#### Running computation
Next, you need to create a `Session` to run your graph one or multiple times. Sessions allocate CPU, GPU and memory resources, and hold the states of variables.

NOTE: In GPU mode, TensorFlow will attempt to allocate all the GPU memory to itself at that stage,
so ensure you don't have any other programs extensively using it, or https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34199233/how-to-prevent-tensorflow-from-allocating-the-totality-of-a-gpu-memory[turn down TensorFlow memory allocation] (has not been tested in Gradient Tech Preview)

Since TensorFlow sessions hold unmanaged resources, they have to be used similar to (but not idential to) `IDisposable`:

[source,csharp]
----
new Session().UseSelf(session => {
    ...do something with the session...
});
----

Now that you have a `Session` to work with, you can actually compute the values in the graph:

[source,csharp]
----
new Session().UseSelf(session => {
    Console.WriteLine($"a = {session.run(a)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"b = {session.run(b)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"a + b = {session.run(sum)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"a / b = {session.run(div)}");
});
----

Note, that `Session.run` also takes a sequence of `Tensor`-like objects.

The full code for this example is available at our https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/tree/master/BasicMath[samples repository]

# Porting Python code to Gradient + C#
In most cases converting Python code, that uses TensorFlow, should be as easy as using C# syntax instead of Python one:

 * add `new` to class constructor calls: `Class()` -> `new Class()`.

__Its easy to spot class construction vs simple function calls in Python:
by convention function names there start with a lower case letter like `min`,
while in class names the first letter is capitalized: `Session` __

 * to pass named paramters, use `:` instead of `=`: `make_layer(kernel_bias=2.0)` -> `make_layer(kernel_bias: 2.0)`
 * to get a subrange of a `Tensor` , use <<csharp8>> syntax (if available): `tensor[1..-2]` -> `tensor[1..^2]`. A single element can be addressed as usual: `tensor[1]`

## Names of classes and functions
Generally, Gradient follows TensorFlow https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf[Python API] naming.
There are, though, language-based differences:

* in Python modules (roughly equivalent to namespaces) can directly contain functions. In .NET every function must be a part of some type. For that reason Gradient exposes static classes, named after the innermost module name to contain module functions and properties (but not classes). For example, Python's `tensorflow.contrib.data` module has a correspoding C# class `tensorflow.contrib.data.data`. So an equivalent of Python's `tensorflow.contrib.data.group_by_window` would be `tensorflow.contrib.data.data.group_by_window`. This mostly applies to the unofficial APIs.
* most of the official API's functions and properties (but *not* classes) are exposed via a special class `tensorflow.tf`. Combined with `using tensorflow;` this enables invoking TensorFlow functions as neatly as: `tf.placeholder(...)`, `tf.keras.activations.relu(...)`, etc

__there is also a similar class__ `numpy.np` __for NumPy functions__

* class names and namespaces are mostly the same as in Python API.
E.g. https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/Session[`tf.Session`] is in `tensorflow` namespace,
and can be instantiated via `new tensorflow.Session(...)` or simply `new Session(...)` with `using tensorflow;`

* some APIs have multiple aliases, like https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf/add[tf.add].
At the moment of writing this post, only one of the aliases was exposed by Gradient. Usually the first one.

* in case of name conflicts (e.g. C# does not allow both `shape` property and `set_shape` method in the same class),
one of the conflicting names is exposed with suffix `$$_$$`. For example: `set_shape$$_$$`, which should be easy to find in IDE autocomplete list.

* (very rare) due to the way Gradient works, non-official classes, functions and properties might be exposed via unexpected namespaces.
IDE should be able to help find classes (by suggesting to add an appropriate `using namespace;`). For functions and properties, one might try to find the class, corresponding to their containing module (see the example with `tensorflow.contrib.data` above, you could search for the `data` class). Another less convenient alternative is to use Visual Studio's Object Explorer.

* (rare) some classes and functions, exposed by TensorFlow might only be exposed as function-typed properties.
For example, https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf/ConfigProto[`ConfigProto`],
that is used to configure `tf.Session` does not have a correspoing class in Gradient.
To create an instance of `ConfigProto`, you must call its constructor via `ConfigProto` property in [title="tensorflow.core.protobuf.config_pb2"]`config_pb2` class: `config_pb2.ConfigProto()`

## Parameter and return types
Gradient tries hard to expose statically-typed API, but the underlying TensorFlow code is inherently dynamic.
In many cases Gradient over-generalizes or under-generalizes underlying parameter and return types.

When the parameter type is over-generalized, it simply means you loose a hint as to what can actually be passed.
Gradient's parameter may be `IEnumerable<object>`, but the function can reject anything except a `Set<int>`.
In these cases you can either refer to the https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf[official documentation],
or quickly try it, and see if the error you get explains what the function actually expects.

### Dynamic overloads
TL;DR; when you can't pass something, replace `tf.func_name(...)` -> `tf.func_name_dyn(...)`,
and `new Class(...)` -> `Class.NewDyn(...)`.

When the parameter or return type is under-generalized, you will not be able to use Gradient's statically-typed API.
A function parameter may say, that it only accepts `int` and `bool`, but you know from documentation/sample,
that you have to pass a `Tensor`. Another common example is when Gradient thinks the parameter must be
of a derived class, when a base class would actually also be ok. For example, parameter `cell` might be of type `LSTMCell`,
but actually you should be able to pass any `RNNCell`, where `class LSTMCell: RNNCell`.
Do not try converting the value you want to pass to the expected type. It will not work.
For these cases Gradient provides dynamic API alongside statically-typed one.

Every function from original API will have an untyped overload, whose name ends with `_dyn`.
All its parameters intentionally allow anything to be passed (type `object`).
It also returns a `dynamic` type.

Same applies to properties. For each `SomeType property{get;set;}` there's a `dynamic property_dyn{get;set;}`.

Every class with constructors will have an untyped static factory method, named `NewDyn`,
which allows you to call class constructor similar to untyped function overloads in the previos paragraph.

Please, report to this issue tracker, if you have to call dynamic overloads a lot to get your model running.
We will try to fix that in the next version.

In some cases even that is not enough. If you need to call a method or access a property of an instance of some class,
and that method/property is not exposed by Gradient, convert the instance to `dynamic`, and try to call it that way.
See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/types/using-type-dynamic

## Passing functions
Many TensorFlow (and hence Gradient) APIs accept functions as parameters.
If the parameter type is known to be a function, Gradient will show it as `Gradient.PythonFunctionContainer`.

There are two ways to get an instance of it: pass Gradient functions back, or pass .NET function.

### Passing TensorFlow functions back to TensorFlow
TL;DR; suffix your function with `_fn`.

Most NN layers expect an `activation` argument, which specifies the neuron activation function.
TensorFlow defines many activation functions one would want to use in both modern and old-style APIs.
The "original" one is called https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigmoid_function[sigmoid] as is availabe as `tf.sigmoid`.
Modern networks often use some variant of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rectifier_(neural_networks)[ReLU] (`tf.nn.relu`).
You can call both directly from Gradient like this: `tf.sigmoid(tensor)`, but in most cases you need to pass them
to `activation` parameter as `PythonFunctionContainer`.

To do that you can simply get a pre-wrapped instance by adding `_fn` suffix to the function name.

For example: `tf.layer.dense(activation: *tf.sigmoid_fn*)`.

### Passing C# functions to Gradient
To get an instace of `PythonFunctionContainer` from a C# function, use static method `PythonFunctionContainer.Of<T1, ..., TResult>(func or lambda)`.
You will have to specify function argument types in place of `<T1, ..., TResult>`.

There are currently <<callback_restrictions, some restrictions>> on what can be done in .NET functions passed to Gradient.


## Python `with` blocks, C#'s `using`
TL;DR; replace `with new Session(...) as sess: sess.do_stuff()`
-> `new Session(...).UseSelf(sess => sess.do_stuff())`

TensorFlow API, being built on Python, use special *enter* and *exit* methods for the same purpose
.NET has `IDisposable`. Problem is: in general they do not map directly to each other.
For that reason every Gradient class, that declares those special methods in TensorFlow,
also exposes `.Use` and `.UseSelf` methods. In most cases it is easiest to use `.UseSelf(self => do_something(self))`
as shown in the sample above. However, there might be rare special cases, when `.Use(context => do_something(context))`
has to be used. The difference is that `obj.UseSelf` always passes `obj` back to the lambda,
while `obj.Use` might actually generate a new object of potentially completely different type.

Think of `.Use` and `.UseSelf` as Gradient's best attempt at reproducing `using(var session = new Session(...)) {}` statement.

A full example on how to use `.UseSelf` can be found in https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/blob/master/BasicMath/BasicMathProgram.cs[samples]


## Exceptions
This feature is still in development.

## NumPy
Since most TensorFlow samples use NumPy, Gradient includes a limited subset under `numpy` namespace.

## Recommendations
* import both `tensorflow` and `numpy` namespaces:
[source,csharp]
----
using tensorflow;
using numpy;

tf.placeholder(...);
np.array(...);
----
* if you extensively use some API set under `tf.`, use `using static tf.API_HERE;`
[source,csharp]
----
using static tf.keras;
...
var model = models.load_model(...);
new Dense(kernel_regularizer: regularizers.l2(...));
----
* many Gradient functions return `dynamic`. Whenever possible, immediately cast it to the concrete type.
It will help to maintain the code. Concrete type is always known at runtime
and can be seen in the debugger, or accessed via `object.GetType()` method.
Most methods in `tf.` actually return `Tensor`.
[source,csharp]
----
Tensor hidden = tf.layers.dense(input, hiddenSize, activation: tf.sigmoid_fn);
----

* avoid directly using classes in `Gradient`, `SharPy.Runtime`, and `Python.Runtime`.
They are Gradient's implementation details, which might be changed in the future versions.

# Limitations of the current tech preview
__This section may be outdated__

### Can't inherit Gradient classes

__While nothing will stop you from inheriting Gradient classes in .NET, any new or overriden members will not be visible to TensorFlow. You may implement corresponding *interfaces* in .NET, but don't inherit anything from any *classes* in `Gradient`, `tensorflow`, or `numpy` namespaces.__

[#callback_restrictions]
### Any callbacks written in .NET are unable to call `Gradient` code.

Will NOT work:
[source,csharp]
----
tf.layer(activation: PythonFunctionContainer.Of<double, double>(v => tf.sqrt(v)))
----

Will work:
[source,csharp]
----
tf.layer(activation: PythonFunctionContainer.Of<double, double>(v => System.Math.Sqrt(v)))
----

Note the use of `tf.sqrt` function inside lambda.

__This is an https://github.com/pythonnet/pythonnet/issues/795[issue with the underlying interop library].__

# Tips and Tricks
[#csharp8]
## C# 8
Gradient supports the neat indexing feature of C# 8: if you are using Visual Studio 2019 Preview+ or the .NET Core SDK 3 Preview+,
you can set appropriate language level like this in the project file: `<LangVersion>8.0</LangVersion>`

Then you can access numpy arrays with the new syntax, for example: `arr[3..^4]`, which means "take a range from element at index 3, that excludes the last 4 elements".

Commit message:

removed a note about inability to call back into TensorFlow from a C# function, as it was fixed in Preview 3

README.adoc, after:

:toc: macro
:toc-title: 
:toclevels: 3
:language: csharp

# Gradient
This repository serves as a public issue tracker and documentation for Gradient, full TensorFlow binding for .NET

Gradient is a fully-fledged, mostly typed binding to TensorFlow for .NET

You can find samples at https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples

[quote, Gradient-based Char-RNN trained on Shakespeare]
He shall speak not reverbering injurance.

# Contents
toc::[]

# Getting started
## Installation
Tech Preview is currently limited to Windows x64 machines, and full .NET Framework 4.7.1+ targets.

### Install Python + Tensorflow
Before installing Gradient, you should ensure, that you have TensorFlow installed and working:

. Install Python 3.6 64-bit. If you have Visual Studio 2017+, it is possible to install it as a component. Otherwise, get one from https://www.python.org/downloads/
. Install TensorFlow 1.10 using pip:
.. Find `python.exe` in the installation directory (VS installs to: C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\Shared\Python36_64\python.exe)
.. Open command line to the directory, containing `python.exe`
.. Execute `.\python.exe -m pip install "tensorflow==1.10.\*"` or `.\python.exe -m pip install "tensorflow-gpu==1.10.*"` if you want GPU acceleration via CUDA (NVidia only)
. Check the installation by launching `python.exe`, and running [source,python]`import tensorflow`. It should succeed.

### Add Nuget package to your project

Gradient packages are published on https://www.nuget.org/packages/Gradient/[Nuget], but will not be "listed" until about Tech Preview 5, which means you won't be able to find it in the Nuget Package Manager. Nuget page lists the commands, necessary to install the package into your project. As of preview1 and the new .csproj format, the command is

[source,powershell]
----
dotnet add package Gradient --version 0.1.10-tech-preview1 
----

If using the new package management features of `.csproj`, this could also be achieved by adding the following line to it:

[source,xml]
----
<PackageReference Include="Gradient" Version="0.1.10-tech-preview1"  />
----

See the example project file https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/blob/master/BasicMath/BasicMath.csproj[here].

## First steps

### Namespaces
In most cases, you will need to add `using tensorflow;` at the beginning of your file. In many cases you will also need `using Gradient;` and `using numpy;`.

[source,csharp]
----
using numpy;
using tensorflow;
using Gradient;
----

### Logging
https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/logging[TensorFlow logging] is separate from Gradient logging. This section discusses the later.

To enable Gradient logs, set appropriate properties of `GradientLog` static class, e.g.:
[source,csharp]
GradientLog.OutputWriter = Console.Out;

### Old style TF
Prior to the recent changes, the main way to use TensorFlow was to contstruct a computation graph, and then run it in a session. Most of the existing examples will use this mode.

#### Constructing compute graph
Graph creation methods are located in the `tf` class from `tensorflow` namespace. For example:

[source,csharp]
----
var a = new dynamic[] { tf.constant(5.0, name: "a") };
var b = new dynamic[] { tf.constant(10.0, name: "b") };

var sum = new dynamic[] { tf.add(a, b, name: "sum") };
var div = new dynamic[] { tf.div(a, b, name: "div") };
----

In this case we wrap the resulting `Tensor` objects into an array, as many construction functions in Gradient like `tf.add` expect arrays (or rather `IEnumerable`), not individual `Tensor` values. (that might change in the future)

#### Running computation
Next, you need to create a `Session` to run your graph one or multiple times. Sessions allocate CPU, GPU and memory resources, and hold the states of variables.

NOTE: In GPU mode, TensorFlow will attempt to allocate all the GPU memory to itself at that stage,
so ensure you don't have any other programs extensively using it, or https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34199233/how-to-prevent-tensorflow-from-allocating-the-totality-of-a-gpu-memory[turn down TensorFlow memory allocation] (has not been tested in Gradient Tech Preview)

Since TensorFlow sessions hold unmanaged resources, they have to be used similar to (but not idential to) `IDisposable`:

[source,csharp]
----
new Session().UseSelf(session => {
    ...do something with the session...
});
----

Now that you have a `Session` to work with, you can actually compute the values in the graph:

[source,csharp]
----
new Session().UseSelf(session => {
    Console.WriteLine($"a = {session.run(a)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"b = {session.run(b)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"a + b = {session.run(sum)}");
    Console.WriteLine($"a / b = {session.run(div)}");
});
----

Note, that `Session.run` also takes a sequence of `Tensor`-like objects.

The full code for this example is available at our https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/tree/master/BasicMath[samples repository]

# Porting Python code to Gradient + C#
In most cases converting Python code, that uses TensorFlow, should be as easy as using C# syntax instead of Python one:

 * add `new` to class constructor calls: `Class()` -> `new Class()`.

__Its easy to spot class construction vs simple function calls in Python:
by convention function names there start with a lower case letter like `min`,
while in class names the first letter is capitalized: `Session` __

 * to pass named paramters, use `:` instead of `=`: `make_layer(kernel_bias=2.0)` -> `make_layer(kernel_bias: 2.0)`
 * to get a subrange of a `Tensor` , use <<csharp8>> syntax (if available): `tensor[1..-2]` -> `tensor[1..^2]`. A single element can be addressed as usual: `tensor[1]`

## Names of classes and functions
Generally, Gradient follows TensorFlow https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf[Python API] naming.
There are, though, language-based differences:

* in Python modules (roughly equivalent to namespaces) can directly contain functions. In .NET every function must be a part of some type. For that reason Gradient exposes static classes, named after the innermost module name to contain module functions and properties (but not classes). For example, Python's `tensorflow.contrib.data` module has a correspoding C# class `tensorflow.contrib.data.data`. So an equivalent of Python's `tensorflow.contrib.data.group_by_window` would be `tensorflow.contrib.data.data.group_by_window`. This mostly applies to the unofficial APIs.
* most of the official API's functions and properties (but *not* classes) are exposed via a special class `tensorflow.tf`. Combined with `using tensorflow;` this enables invoking TensorFlow functions as neatly as: `tf.placeholder(...)`, `tf.keras.activations.relu(...)`, etc

__there is also a similar class__ `numpy.np` __for NumPy functions__

* class names and namespaces are mostly the same as in Python API.
E.g. https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/Session[`tf.Session`] is in `tensorflow` namespace,
and can be instantiated via `new tensorflow.Session(...)` or simply `new Session(...)` with `using tensorflow;`

* some APIs have multiple aliases, like https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf/add[tf.add].
At the moment of writing this post, only one of the aliases was exposed by Gradient. Usually the first one.

* in case of name conflicts (e.g. C# does not allow both `shape` property and `set_shape` method in the same class),
one of the conflicting names is exposed with suffix `$$_$$`. For example: `set_shape$$_$$`, which should be easy to find in IDE autocomplete list.

* (very rare) due to the way Gradient works, non-official classes, functions and properties might be exposed via unexpected namespaces.
IDE should be able to help find classes (by suggesting to add an appropriate `using namespace;`). For functions and properties, one might try to find the class, corresponding to their containing module (see the example with `tensorflow.contrib.data` above, you could search for the `data` class). Another less convenient alternative is to use Visual Studio's Object Explorer.

* (rare) some classes and functions, exposed by TensorFlow might only be exposed as function-typed properties.
For example, https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf/ConfigProto[`ConfigProto`],
that is used to configure `tf.Session` does not have a correspoing class in Gradient.
To create an instance of `ConfigProto`, you must call its constructor via `ConfigProto` property in [title="tensorflow.core.protobuf.config_pb2"]`config_pb2` class: `config_pb2.ConfigProto()`

## Parameter and return types
Gradient tries hard to expose statically-typed API, but the underlying TensorFlow code is inherently dynamic.
In many cases Gradient over-generalizes or under-generalizes underlying parameter and return types.

When the parameter type is over-generalized, it simply means you loose a hint as to what can actually be passed.
Gradient's parameter may be `IEnumerable<object>`, but the function can reject anything except a `Set<int>`.
In these cases you can either refer to the https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r1.10/api_docs/python/tf[official documentation],
or quickly try it, and see if the error you get explains what the function actually expects.

### Dynamic overloads
TL;DR; when you can't pass something, replace `tf.func_name(...)` -> `tf.func_name_dyn(...)`,
and `new Class(...)` -> `Class.NewDyn(...)`.

When the parameter or return type is under-generalized, you will not be able to use Gradient's statically-typed API.
A function parameter may say, that it only accepts `int` and `bool`, but you know from documentation/sample,
that you have to pass a `Tensor`. Another common example is when Gradient thinks the parameter must be
of a derived class, when a base class would actually also be ok. For example, parameter `cell` might be of type `LSTMCell`,
but actually you should be able to pass any `RNNCell`, where `class LSTMCell: RNNCell`.
Do not try converting the value you want to pass to the expected type. It will not work.
For these cases Gradient provides dynamic API alongside statically-typed one.

Every function from original API will have an untyped overload, whose name ends with `_dyn`.
All its parameters intentionally allow anything to be passed (type `object`).
It also returns a `dynamic` type.

Same applies to properties. For each `SomeType property{get;set;}` there's a `dynamic property_dyn{get;set;}`.

Every class with constructors will have an untyped static factory method, named `NewDyn`,
which allows you to call class constructor similar to untyped function overloads in the previos paragraph.

Please, report to this issue tracker, if you have to call dynamic overloads a lot to get your model running.
We will try to fix that in the next version.

In some cases even that is not enough. If you need to call a method or access a property of an instance of some class,
and that method/property is not exposed by Gradient, convert the instance to `dynamic`, and try to call it that way.
See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/types/using-type-dynamic

## Passing functions
Many TensorFlow (and hence Gradient) APIs accept functions as parameters.
If the parameter type is known to be a function, Gradient will show it as `Gradient.PythonFunctionContainer`.

There are two ways to get an instance of it: pass Gradient functions back, or pass .NET function.

### Passing TensorFlow functions back to TensorFlow
TL;DR; suffix your function with `_fn`.

Most NN layers expect an `activation` argument, which specifies the neuron activation function.
TensorFlow defines many activation functions one would want to use in both modern and old-style APIs.
The "original" one is called https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigmoid_function[sigmoid] as is availabe as `tf.sigmoid`.
Modern networks often use some variant of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rectifier_(neural_networks)[ReLU] (`tf.nn.relu`).
You can call both directly from Gradient like this: `tf.sigmoid(tensor)`, but in most cases you need to pass them
to `activation` parameter as `PythonFunctionContainer`.

To do that you can simply get a pre-wrapped instance by adding `_fn` suffix to the function name.

For example: `tf.layer.dense(activation: *tf.sigmoid_fn*)`.

### Passing C# functions to Gradient
To get an instace of `PythonFunctionContainer` from a C# function, use static method `PythonFunctionContainer.Of<T1, ..., TResult>(func or lambda)`.
You will have to specify function argument types in place of `<T1, ..., TResult>`.

## Python `with` blocks, C#'s `using`
TL;DR; replace `with new Session(...) as sess: sess.do_stuff()`
-> `new Session(...).UseSelf(sess => sess.do_stuff())`

TensorFlow API, being built on Python, use special *enter* and *exit* methods for the same purpose
.NET has `IDisposable`. Problem is: in general they do not map directly to each other.
For that reason every Gradient class, that declares those special methods in TensorFlow,
also exposes `.Use` and `.UseSelf` methods. In most cases it is easiest to use `.UseSelf(self => do_something(self))`
as shown in the sample above. However, there might be rare special cases, when `.Use(context => do_something(context))`
has to be used. The difference is that `obj.UseSelf` always passes `obj` back to the lambda,
while `obj.Use` might actually generate a new object of potentially completely different type.

Think of `.Use` and `.UseSelf` as Gradient's best attempt at reproducing `using(var session = new Session(...)) {}` statement.

A full example on how to use `.UseSelf` can be found in https://github.com/losttech/Gradient-Samples/blob/master/BasicMath/BasicMathProgram.cs[samples]


## Exceptions
This feature is still in development.

## NumPy
Since most TensorFlow samples use NumPy, Gradient includes a limited subset under `numpy` namespace.

## Recommendations
* import both `tensorflow` and `numpy` namespaces:
[source,csharp]
----
using tensorflow;
using numpy;

tf.placeholder(...);
np.array(...);
----
* if you extensively use some API set under `tf.`, use `using static tf.API_HERE;`
[source,csharp]
----
using static tf.keras;
...
var model = models.load_model(...);
new Dense(kernel_regularizer: regularizers.l2(...));
----
* many Gradient functions return `dynamic`. Whenever possible, immediately cast it to the concrete type.
It will help to maintain the code. Concrete type is always known at runtime
and can be seen in the debugger, or accessed via `object.GetType()` method.
Most methods in `tf.` actually return `Tensor`.
[source,csharp]
----
Tensor hidden = tf.layers.dense(input, hiddenSize, activation: tf.sigmoid_fn);
----

* avoid directly using classes in `Gradient`, `SharPy.Runtime`, and `Python.Runtime`.
They are Gradient's implementation details, which might be changed in the future versions.

# Limitations of the current tech preview
__This section may be outdated__

### Can't inherit Gradient classes

__While nothing will stop you from inheriting Gradient classes in .NET, any new or overriden members will not be visible to TensorFlow. You may implement corresponding *interfaces* in .NET, but don't inherit anything from any *classes* in `Gradient`, `tensorflow`, or `numpy` namespaces.__

# Tips and Tricks
[#csharp8]
## C# 8
Gradient supports the neat indexing feature of C# 8: if you are using Visual Studio 2019 Preview+ or the .NET Core SDK 3 Preview+,
you can set appropriate language level like this in the project file: `<LangVersion>8.0</LangVersion>`

Then you can access numpy arrays with the new syntax, for example: `arr[3..^4]`, which means "take a range from element at index 3, that excludes the last 4 elements".


# What's new
## Preview 3
- fixed inability to reenter TensorFlow from a callback

## Preview 2:

- dynamically typed overloads, that enable fallback for tricky signatures
- a common interface for tf.Variable and tf.Tensor
- enabled enumeration over TensorFlow collection types
